dhafnck_mcp_main/docs/setup-guides/keycloak-authentication-fix.md, before:

# Keycloak Authentication Fix Guide

## Problem Summary
Users were experiencing 401 "Invalid credentials" errors when trying to login, even though registration appeared successful and accounts were being created in Keycloak.

## Root Cause Analysis

### Issue 1: Password Not Set Correctly
When users registered through the frontend, the account was created in Keycloak but:
- Password was not properly set
- User roles were not assigned
- Required actions were blocking login

### Issue 2: Missing Role Assignments
New users were not automatically assigned necessary roles:
- `user` role (application-specific)
- `offline_access` role (for refresh tokens)
- `uma_authorization` role (for authorization)

## Solution

### Fix Script: `fix_user_account.sh`
Created a script that:
1. Resets user password to a known value
2. Assigns all necessary roles
3. Clears required actions
4. Enables the account
5. Verifies login works

### Usage
```bash
# Fix a specific user account
./fix_user_account.sh <admin_password> <user_email>

# Example
./fix_user_account.sh P02tqbj016p9@@@ q987@yopmail.com
```

## Authentication Flow Verification

### 1. Registration Endpoint
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8000/api/auth/register \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "email": "test@example.com",
    "password": "Password123!",
    "username": "testuser"
  }'
```

**Expected Response:**
```json
{
  "success": true,
  "user_id": "uuid",
  "email": "test@example.com",
  "username": "testuser",
  "message": "🎉 SUCCESS: Account created and you have been automatically logged in!",
  "auto_login_token": "jwt_token"
}
```

### 2. Login Endpoint
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8000/api/auth/login \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "email": "test@example.com",
    "password": "Password123!"
  }'
```

**Expected Response:**
```json
{
  "access_token": "jwt_token",
  "token_type": "bearer",
  "refresh_token": "refresh_token",
  "expires_in": 300,
  "user_id": "uuid",
  "email": "test@example.com"
}
```

## Configuration

### Environment Variables (.env.keycloak)
```bash
# Keycloak Admin Credentials
KEYCLOAK_ADMIN_USER=admin
KEYCLOAK_ADMIN_PASSWORD=<admin_password>

# Keycloak URLs and Realm
KEYCLOAK_URL=https://keycloak.92.5.226.7.nip.io
KEYCLOAK_REALM=mcp
KEYCLOAK_CLIENT_ID=mcp-api
KEYCLOAK_CLIENT_SECRET=<client_secret>

# Email Verification Setting
EMAIL_VERIFIED_AUTO=true
```

### Key Features
- **EMAIL_VERIFIED_AUTO=true**: Automatically marks email as verified during registration
- **Auto-login after registration**: Users receive JWT token immediately after registration
- **Role auto-assignment**: User roles assigned during registration process

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

#### 1. 401 Invalid Credentials
**Cause**: User password not set correctly or roles missing
**Fix**: Run `fix_user_account.sh` for the affected user

#### 2. Registration Success but Login Fails
**Cause**: Required actions blocking login
**Fix**: Script clears all required actions automatically

#### 3. Token Validation Errors
**Cause**: Client configuration mismatch
**Fix**: Ensure KEYCLOAK_CLIENT_SECRET matches Keycloak configuration

## Security Improvements Implemented

1. **Removed Hardcoded Passwords**: All scripts now use environment variables or command-line arguments
2. **Git History Cleaned**: Removed sensitive data from git history using orphan branch approach
3. **Environment File Protection**: Added .env.keycloak to .gitignore
4. **Template File**: Created .env.keycloak.example for safe sharing

## Testing Checklist

- [x] Registration creates user in Keycloak
- [x] Registration returns auto-login token
- [x] Login with registered user succeeds
- [x] Refresh token works correctly
- [x] User roles properly assigned
- [x] Email verification handled correctly

## Related Files
- `/fix_user_account.sh` - User account fix script
- `/fix_keycloak_complete.sh` - Complete Keycloak setup
- `dhafnck_mcp_main/src/fastmcp/auth/interface/auth_endpoints.py` - Auth implementation
- `.env.keycloak` - Environment configuration (not in git)
- `.env.keycloak.example` - Configuration template

Commit message:

Fix Keycloak authentication issues by correcting email typos and enhancing logging. Updated documentation to reflect the root causes of login failures, including email discrepancies and role assignment problems. Improved error handling in the authentication process to log detailed failure reasons.

dhafnck_mcp_main/docs/setup-guides/keycloak-authentication-fix.md, after:

# Keycloak Authentication Fix Guide

## Problem Summary
Users were experiencing 401 "Invalid credentials" errors when trying to login, even though registration appeared successful and accounts were being created in Keycloak.

## Root Cause Analysis

### Issue 1: Email Typo in User Account
The user account had a typo in the email address:
- Was: `q987@yomail.com` (missing 'p')
- Fixed to: `q987@yopmail.com`
- This caused login attempts to fail as the email didn't match

### Issue 2: Password Not Set Correctly
When users registered through the frontend, the account was created in Keycloak but:
- Password was not properly set
- User roles were not assigned
- Required actions were blocking login

### Issue 3: Missing Role Assignments
New users were not automatically assigned necessary roles:
- `user` role (application-specific)
- `offline_access` role (for refresh tokens)
- `uma_authorization` role (for authorization)

## Solution

### Fix Script: `fix_user_account.sh`
Created a script that:
1. Resets user password to a known value
2. Assigns all necessary roles
3. Clears required actions
4. Enables the account
5. Verifies login works

### Usage
```bash
# Fix a specific user account
./fix_user_account.sh <admin_password> <user_email>

# Example
./fix_user_account.sh P02tqbj016p9@@@ q987@yopmail.com
```

## Authentication Flow Verification

### 1. Registration Endpoint
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8000/api/auth/register \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "email": "test@example.com",
    "password": "Password123!",
    "username": "testuser"
  }'
```

**Expected Response:**
```json
{
  "success": true,
  "user_id": "uuid",
  "email": "test@example.com",
  "username": "testuser",
  "message": "🎉 SUCCESS: Account created and you have been automatically logged in!",
  "auto_login_token": "jwt_token"
}
```

### 2. Login Endpoint
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8000/api/auth/login \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "email": "test@example.com",
    "password": "Password123!"
  }'
```

**Expected Response:**
```json
{
  "access_token": "jwt_token",
  "token_type": "bearer",
  "refresh_token": "refresh_token",
  "expires_in": 300,
  "user_id": "uuid",
  "email": "test@example.com"
}
```

## Configuration

### Environment Variables (.env.keycloak)
```bash
# Keycloak Admin Credentials
KEYCLOAK_ADMIN_USER=admin
KEYCLOAK_ADMIN_PASSWORD=<admin_password>

# Keycloak URLs and Realm
KEYCLOAK_URL=https://keycloak.92.5.226.7.nip.io
KEYCLOAK_REALM=mcp
KEYCLOAK_CLIENT_ID=mcp-api
KEYCLOAK_CLIENT_SECRET=<client_secret>

# Email Verification Setting
EMAIL_VERIFIED_AUTO=true
```

### Key Features
- **EMAIL_VERIFIED_AUTO=true**: Automatically marks email as verified during registration
- **Auto-login after registration**: Users receive JWT token immediately after registration
- **Role auto-assignment**: User roles assigned during registration process

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

#### 1. 401 Invalid Credentials
**Cause**: User password not set correctly or roles missing
**Fix**: Run `fix_user_account.sh` for the affected user

#### 2. Registration Success but Login Fails
**Cause**: Required actions blocking login
**Fix**: Script clears all required actions automatically

#### 3. Token Validation Errors
**Cause**: Client configuration mismatch
**Fix**: Ensure KEYCLOAK_CLIENT_SECRET matches Keycloak configuration

## Security Improvements Implemented

1. **Removed Hardcoded Passwords**: All scripts now use environment variables or command-line arguments
2. **Git History Cleaned**: Removed sensitive data from git history using orphan branch approach
3. **Environment File Protection**: Added .env.keycloak to .gitignore
4. **Template File**: Created .env.keycloak.example for safe sharing

## Testing Checklist

- [x] Registration creates user in Keycloak
- [x] Registration returns auto-login token
- [x] Login with registered user succeeds
- [x] Refresh token works correctly
- [x] User roles properly assigned
- [x] Email verification handled correctly

## Related Files
- `/fix_user_account.sh` - User account fix script
- `/fix_keycloak_complete.sh` - Complete Keycloak setup
- `dhafnck_mcp_main/src/fastmcp/auth/interface/auth_endpoints.py` - Auth implementation
- `.env.keycloak` - Environment configuration (not in git)
- `.env.keycloak.example` - Configuration template
