ai_docs/migration-guides/agent-library-cleanup-migration-guide.md, before:

# Agent Library Cleanup Migration Guide

## Overview

This guide provides step-by-step instructions to implement the agent library cleanup recommendations, transitioning from 69 agents to 43 core agents for improved maintainability and system performance.

**Reference Document**: [Agent Library Cleanup Recommendations](../architecture-design/agent-library-cleanup-recommendations.md)

## 🎉 Current Progress (2025-09-06)

**MAJOR MILESTONE ACHIEVED**: Significant improvements completed in Phase 0.

### ✅ Phase 0: Template Completion & Quality Improvement (COMPLETED)
**Status**: **COMPLETED** ✅  
**Duration**: 1 day  
**Achievement**: **+550% increase in production-ready agents**

**Results**:
- ✅ **Removed broken generic_purpose_agent** (completely broken template)
- ✅ **13 Production-Ready Agents** completed (up from 2)
- ✅ **6/7 High-Priority Agents** completed (85.7% completion rate)
- ✅ **Quality Metrics Dramatically Improved**:
  - Placeholder reduction: 98.5% → 79.4% (-19.1%)
  - Placeholder instances: 651+ → 191 (-71%)
  - Average quality score: 42.1 → 50.1 (+8 points)

**Completed Agents**:
1. ✅ master-orchestrator-agent (already excellent)
2. ✅ ui_designer_expert_shadcn_agent (already excellent) 
3. ✅ coding-agent ⭐ HIGH PRIORITY
4. ✅ test-orchestrator-agent ⭐ HIGH PRIORITY
5. ✅ debugger-agent ⭐ HIGH PRIORITY
6. ✅ security-auditor-agent ⭐ HIGH PRIORITY
7. ✅ devops-agent ⭐ HIGH PRIORITY
8. ✅ deep-research-agent ⭐ HIGH PRIORITY
9. ✅ code-reviewer-agent
10. ✅ functional_tester_agent
11. ✅ security_penetration_tester_agent
12. ✅ test_case_generator_agent
13. ✅ growth_hacking_idea_agent

**Status**: **COMPLETED** ✅ - All phases successfully executed!

**FINAL RESULTS**:
- ✅ Successfully reduced from 69 to **43 agents** (38% reduction)
- ✅ Removed **26 redundant agents** as planned
- ✅ **13 production-ready agents** maintained and enhanced
- ✅ All high-priority agents (7/7) completed
- ✅ System cleanup and optimization complete

## Pre-Migration Checklist

### ✅ Prerequisites
- [ ] Read the complete [Agent Library Cleanup Recommendations](../architecture-design/agent-library-cleanup-recommendations.md)
- [ ] Backup current agent library: `cp -r agenthub_main/agent-library agenthub_main/agent-library.backup`
- [ ] Document current system usage patterns
- [ ] Notify stakeholders of upcoming changes
- [ ] Test environment setup and validation

### 📋 Impact Assessment
- **Current State**: 69 agents
- **Target State**: 43 agents (26 agents to be removed/consolidated)
- **Estimated Timeline**: 2-3 weeks
- **Risk Level**: Medium (functionality consolidation required)

## Migration Phases

### Phase 1: Low-Risk Immediate Removals

**Duration**: 2-3 days  
**Risk Level**: Low  
**Agents to Remove**: 3 agents with clear redundancy

#### Step 1.1: Remove Generic Purpose Agent
```bash
# The generic_purpose_agent has unclear functionality and can be safely removed
rm -rf agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/generic_purpose_agent
```

#### Step 1.2: Remove Lead Testing Agent
```bash
# Functionality completely overlaps with test-orchestrator-agent
rm -rf agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/lead_testing_agent
```

#### Step 1.3: Remove Campaign Manager Agent  
```bash
# Functionality absorbed into marketing-strategy-orchestrator-agent
rm -rf agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/campaign_manager_agent
```

#### Step 1.4: Update Agent Registry
After removing agents, update the agent registry to reflect changes:

```python
# In agent registration system, remove references to deleted agents
REMOVED_AGENTS_PHASE1 = [
    'generic_purpose_agent',
    'lead_testing_agent', 
    'campaign_manager_agent'
]

# Add deprecation notices for clients still trying to use these agents
def handle_deprecated_agent(agent_name):
    if agent_name in REMOVED_AGENTS_PHASE1:
        return {
            "error": f"Agent {agent_name} has been removed",
            "replacement": get_replacement_agent(agent_name),
            "migration_guide": "See agent-library-cleanup-migration-guide.md"
        }
```

#### Step 1.5: Test Phase 1 Removal
- [ ] Run agent discovery tests
- [ ] Verify no broken references in codebase
- [ ] Test agent loading functionality
- [ ] Validate MCP tool responses

### Phase 2: Functionality Integration

**Duration**: 1-2 weeks  
**Risk Level**: Medium  
**Focus**: Merge capabilities into broader agents

#### Step 2.1: Testing Domain Consolidation

**Target**: Consolidate 6 testing agents → 2 agents

##### Step 2.1.1: Enhance test-orchestrator-agent
```yaml
# Update agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/test-orchestrator-agent/contexts/test_orchestrator_agent_instructions.yaml

additional_capabilities:
  functional_testing:
    description: "Execute functional tests on software features and user flows"
    inherited_from: "functional_tester_agent"
    commands:
      - "Create functional test suites"
      - "Execute feature testing"
      - "Document test results and bugs"
    
  exploratory_testing:
    description: "Perform unscripted exploratory testing"
    inherited_from: "exploratory_tester_agent" 
    commands:
      - "Creative test case discovery"
      - "Edge case identification"
      - "Usability issue detection"
      
  test_case_generation:
    description: "Generate comprehensive test cases"
    inherited_from: "test_case_generator_agent"
    commands:
      - "Analyze requirements for test coverage"
      - "Generate unit, integration, and system tests"
      - "Create test data isolation strategies"
```

##### Step 2.1.2: Remove Redundant Testing Agents
```bash
rm -rf agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/functional_tester_agent
rm -rf agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/exploratory_tester_agent  
rm -rf agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/test_case_generator_agent
```

#### Step 2.2: UI/Design Domain Consolidation

**Target**: Consolidate 4 design agents → 2 agents

##### Step 2.2.1: Enhance ui_designer_expert_shadcn_agent
```yaml
# Update agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/ui_designer_expert_shadcn_agent/contexts/ui_designer_expert_shadcn_agent_instructions.yaml

enhanced_capabilities:
  general_ui_design:
    description: "General UI/UX design beyond shadcn/ui"
    inherited_from: "ui_designer_agent"
    commands:
      - "Create wireframes and mockups"
      - "Design user flows and journeys"
      - "Prototype interactive experiences"
      
  usability_evaluation:
    description: "Comprehensive usability assessments" 
    inherited_from: "usability_heuristic_agent"
    commands:
      - "Heuristic usability evaluations"
      - "Accessibility barrier identification"
      - "User experience improvement recommendations"
```

##### Step 2.2.2: Enhance design-system-agent
```yaml
# Update agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/design-system-agent/contexts/design_system_agent_instructions.yaml

expanded_capabilities:
  usability_integration:
    description: "Integrate usability principles into design systems"
    inherited_from: "usability_heuristic_agent"
    commands:
      - "Apply usability heuristics to design systems"
      - "Ensure accessibility compliance in components"
      - "Create usability-focused component guidelines"
```

##### Step 2.2.3: Remove Redundant Design Agents
```bash
rm -rf agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/ui_designer_agent
rm -rf agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/usability_heuristic_agent
```

#### Step 2.3: Research Domain Consolidation

**Target**: Consolidate 4 research agents → 2 agents

##### Step 2.3.1: Enhance deep-research-agent
```yaml
# Update agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/deep-research-agent/contexts/deep_research_agent_instructions.yaml

expanded_research_capabilities:
  market_research:
    description: "Comprehensive market analysis and competitive research"
    inherited_from: "market_research_agent"
    commands:
      - "Market viability analysis"
      - "Competitive landscape mapping"
      - "Target audience segmentation"
      - "Industry trend analysis"
      
  ux_research:
    description: "User experience research and analysis"
    inherited_from: "ux_researcher_agent" 
    commands:
      - "User needs and behavior analysis"
      - "User persona development"
      - "Usability studies and testing"
      - "UX insight synthesis"
```

##### Step 2.3.2: Remove Redundant Research Agents
```bash
rm -rf agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/market_research_agent
rm -rf agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/ux_researcher_agent
```

#### Step 2.4: Test Phase 2 Integration
- [ ] Test enhanced agent capabilities
- [ ] Verify all functionality is preserved
- [ ] Update agent selection logic
- [ ] Test cross-agent workflows

### Phase 3: Final Consolidation

**Duration**: 1 week  
**Risk Level**: Higher  
**Focus**: Complete remaining consolidations

#### Step 3.1: Strategy/Orchestration Consolidation

##### Step 3.1.1: Enhance master-orchestrator-agent
```yaml
# Update agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/master-orchestrator-agent/contexts/uber_orchestrator_agent_instructions.yaml

supreme_orchestration_capabilities:
  development_orchestration:
    description: "Software development lifecycle coordination"
    inherited_from: "development_orchestrator_agent"
    commands:
      - "Development pipeline oversight"
      - "Team coordination and dependencies"
      - "Quality gate management"
      
  complex_task_management:
    description: "Complex project orchestration"
    inherited_from: "task_deep_manager_agent"
    commands:
      - "Recursive task decomposition"
      - "Intelligent agent assignment"
      - "Quality validation workflows"
      
  workflow_architecture:
    description: "Workflow design and optimization"
    inherited_from: "workflow_architect_agent"
    commands:
      - "Process architecture design"
      - "Operational lifecycle optimization"
      - "Team coordination frameworks"
```

##### Step 3.1.2: Remove Redundant Strategy Agents
```bash
rm -rf agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/development_orchestrator_agent
rm -rf agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/task_deep_manager_agent
rm -rf agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/workflow_architect_agent
```

#### Step 3.2: Security Domain Consolidation

##### Step 3.2.1: Enhance security-auditor-agent
```yaml
# Update agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/security-auditor-agent/contexts/security_auditor_agent_instructions.yaml

comprehensive_security_capabilities:
  penetration_testing:
    description: "Security and penetration testing"
    inherited_from: "security_penetration_tester_agent"
    commands:
      - "Vulnerability assessment and exploitation"
      - "Infrastructure penetration testing"
      - "Security findings documentation"
```

##### Step 3.2.2: Enhance compliance-scope-agent  
```yaml
# Update agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/compliance-scope-agent/contexts/compliance_scope_agent_instructions.yaml

comprehensive_compliance_capabilities:
  compliance_testing:
    description: "Compliance verification testing"
    inherited_from: "compliance_testing_agent"
    commands:
      - "Regulatory compliance verification"
      - "Accessibility standards testing"
      - "Compliance violation identification"
```

##### Step 3.2.3: Remove Redundant Security Agents
```bash
rm -rf agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/security_penetration_tester_agent
rm -rf agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/compliance_testing_agent
```

#### Step 3.3: Documentation/Knowledge Consolidation

##### Step 3.3.1: Enhance documentation-agent
```yaml
# Update agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/documentation-agent/contexts/documentation_agent_instructions.yaml

comprehensive_knowledge_management:
  scribe_capabilities:
    description: "Meeting notes and knowledge capture"
    inherited_from: "scribe_agent"
    commands:
      - "Real-time meeting documentation"
      - "Decision record creation"
      - "Knowledge artifact organization"
      
  knowledge_evolution:
    description: "System learning and evolution"
    inherited_from: "knowledge_evolution_agent"
    commands:
      - "Agent performance analysis"
      - "Workflow efficiency assessment"
      - "System improvement recommendations"
      
  incident_learning:
    description: "Incident analysis and learning"
    inherited_from: "incident_learning_agent"
    commands:
      - "Post-incident knowledge capture"
      - "Pattern identification and analysis"
      - "Preventive strategy development"
```

##### Step 3.3.2: Remove Redundant Documentation Agents
```bash
rm -rf agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/scribe_agent
rm -rf agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/knowledge_evolution_agent
rm -rf agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/incident_learning_agent
```

#### Step 3.4: Final Specialized Agent Cleanup

Remove remaining redundant specialized agents:
```bash
# Marketing domain
rm -rf agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/social_media_setup_agent
rm -rf agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/growth_hacking_idea_agent

# Design domain  
rm -rf agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/graphic_design_agent
rm -rf agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/video_production_agent
rm -rf agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/design_qa_analyst_agent

# Development domain
rm -rf agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/algorithmic_problem_solver_agent

# Research domain
rm -rf agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/user_feedback_collector_agent

# Testing domain
rm -rf agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/visual_regression_testing_agent
```

## Post-Migration Tasks

### 📝 Update Documentation
- [ ] Update README.md with new agent count and capabilities
- [ ] Update CLAUDE.md agent selection guidelines  
- [ ] Update API documentation for agent discovery
- [ ] Create agent capability mapping document

### 🧪 Testing & Validation
- [ ] Run comprehensive agent discovery tests
- [ ] Test all remaining agent functionalities
- [ ] Validate agent selection logic still works
- [ ] Test cross-agent workflow patterns
- [ ] Performance benchmarking (should show improvement)

### 🔄 System Updates
- [ ] Update agent registration system
- [ ] Update agent discovery endpoints
- [ ] Update client-side agent selection logic
- [ ] Update monitoring and logging for new agent structure

### 📢 Communication
- [ ] Notify all users of agent library changes
- [ ] Provide migration guide for existing workflows
- [ ] Update training materials and documentation
- [ ] Create FAQ for common questions

## Rollback Plan

If issues are encountered during migration:

### Emergency Rollback
```bash
# Restore from backup
rm -rf agenthub_main/agent-library
mv agenthub_main/agent-library.backup agenthub_main/agent-library

# Restart services
docker-compose restart
```

### Partial Rollback
```bash
# Restore specific agents that are causing issues
cp -r agenthub_main/agent-library.backup/agents/[agent_name] agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/
```

## Success Metrics

### ✅ Migration Success Criteria
- [ ] All 43 core agents load successfully
- [ ] No functionality loss reported by users
- [ ] System performance improvements measurable
- [ ] Agent selection time improved
- [ ] Memory usage reduced
- [ ] All tests passing

### 📊 Performance Benchmarks
- **Agent Discovery Time**: Target <50% of current time
- **Memory Usage**: Target 20-30% reduction
- **Agent Selection Clarity**: User satisfaction survey >90%
- **System Maintenance**: Reduced maintenance overhead

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues and Solutions

#### Issue: Agent Not Found Errors
**Solution**: Check agent name mapping and update client references
```python
# Add to agent resolution system
AGENT_MAPPINGS = {
    'ui_designer_agent': 'ui_designer_expert_shadcn_agent',
    'lead_testing_agent': 'test-orchestrator-agent',
    'functional_tester_agent': 'test-orchestrator-agent',
    # ... additional mappings
}
```

#### Issue: Missing Functionality
**Solution**: Verify capability inheritance is properly configured in agent instructions

#### Issue: Agent Selection Confusion  
**Solution**: Update agent selection logic with clearer decision trees

## Additional Resources

- [Agent Library Cleanup Recommendations](../architecture-design/agent-library-cleanup-recommendations.md) - Complete analysis
- [Agent Configuration Guide](../development-guides/agent-configuration-guide.md) - Agent setup patterns
- [MCP Integration Guide](../development-guides/mcp-integration-guide.md) - MCP client integration
- [Troubleshooting Guide](../troubleshooting-guides/COMPREHENSIVE_TROUBLESHOOTING_GUIDE.md) - System troubleshooting

---

**Next Steps**: After completing this migration, the system will have 43 optimized agents with improved maintainability, clearer specialization, and better performance characteristics.

*Migration Guide Version: 1.0*  
*Created: 2025-09-06*  
*Status: Ready for Implementation*

Commit message:

chore: update agent count in documentation and related files
- Updated the README.md and agent-library README.md to reflect the optimization of the agent library from 69 to 32 specialized AI agents for better maintainability and clearer specialization.
- Adjusted references in various documentation files, including migration guides and configuration strategies, to ensure consistency with the new agent count.
- Removed obsolete session data related to the previous agent structure to streamline the project.

This commit ensures that all documentation accurately represents the current state of the agent library, promoting clarity and alignment across the project.

ai_docs/migration-guides/agent-library-cleanup-migration-guide.md, after:

# Agent Library Cleanup Migration Guide

## Overview

This guide provides step-by-step instructions to implement the agent library cleanup recommendations, transitioning from 69 agents to 32 core agents for improved maintainability and system performance.

**Reference Document**: [Agent Library Cleanup Recommendations](../architecture-design/agent-library-cleanup-recommendations.md)

## 🎉 Current Progress (2025-09-06)

**MAJOR MILESTONE ACHIEVED**: Significant improvements completed in Phase 0.

### ✅ Phase 0: Template Completion & Quality Improvement (COMPLETED)
**Status**: **COMPLETED** ✅  
**Duration**: 1 day  
**Achievement**: **+550% increase in production-ready agents**

**Results**:
- ✅ **Removed broken generic_purpose_agent** (completely broken template)
- ✅ **13 Production-Ready Agents** completed (up from 2)
- ✅ **6/7 High-Priority Agents** completed (85.7% completion rate)
- ✅ **Quality Metrics Dramatically Improved**:
  - Placeholder reduction: 98.5% → 79.4% (-19.1%)
  - Placeholder instances: 651+ → 191 (-71%)
  - Average quality score: 42.1 → 50.1 (+8 points)

**Completed Agents**:
1. ✅ master-orchestrator-agent (already excellent)
2. ✅ ui_designer_expert_shadcn_agent (already excellent) 
3. ✅ coding-agent ⭐ HIGH PRIORITY
4. ✅ test-orchestrator-agent ⭐ HIGH PRIORITY
5. ✅ debugger-agent ⭐ HIGH PRIORITY
6. ✅ security-auditor-agent ⭐ HIGH PRIORITY
7. ✅ devops-agent ⭐ HIGH PRIORITY
8. ✅ deep-research-agent ⭐ HIGH PRIORITY
9. ✅ code-reviewer-agent
10. ✅ functional_tester_agent
11. ✅ security_penetration_tester_agent
12. ✅ test_case_generator_agent
13. ✅ growth_hacking_idea_agent

**Status**: **COMPLETED** ✅ - All phases successfully executed!

**FINAL RESULTS**:
- ✅ Successfully reduced from 69 to **32 agents** (major reduction in duplication)
- ✅ Removed **26 redundant agents** as planned
- ✅ **13 production-ready agents** maintained and enhanced
- ✅ All high-priority agents (7/7) completed
- ✅ System cleanup and optimization complete

## Pre-Migration Checklist

### ✅ Prerequisites
- [ ] Read the complete [Agent Library Cleanup Recommendations](../architecture-design/agent-library-cleanup-recommendations.md)
- [ ] Backup current agent library: `cp -r agenthub_main/agent-library agenthub_main/agent-library.backup`
- [ ] Document current system usage patterns
- [ ] Notify stakeholders of upcoming changes
- [ ] Test environment setup and validation

### 📋 Impact Assessment
- **Current State**: 69 agents
- **Target State**: 32 agents (deep consolidation of redundant roles)
- **Estimated Timeline**: 2-3 weeks
- **Risk Level**: Medium (functionality consolidation required)

## Migration Phases

### Phase 1: Low-Risk Immediate Removals

**Duration**: 2-3 days  
**Risk Level**: Low  
**Agents to Remove**: 3 agents with clear redundancy

#### Step 1.1: Remove Generic Purpose Agent
```bash
# The generic_purpose_agent has unclear functionality and can be safely removed
rm -rf agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/generic_purpose_agent
```

#### Step 1.2: Remove Lead Testing Agent
```bash
# Functionality completely overlaps with test-orchestrator-agent
rm -rf agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/lead_testing_agent
```

#### Step 1.3: Remove Campaign Manager Agent  
```bash
# Functionality absorbed into marketing-strategy-orchestrator-agent
rm -rf agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/campaign_manager_agent
```

#### Step 1.4: Update Agent Registry
After removing agents, update the agent registry to reflect changes:

```python
# In agent registration system, remove references to deleted agents
REMOVED_AGENTS_PHASE1 = [
    'generic_purpose_agent',
    'lead_testing_agent', 
    'campaign_manager_agent'
]

# Add deprecation notices for clients still trying to use these agents
def handle_deprecated_agent(agent_name):
    if agent_name in REMOVED_AGENTS_PHASE1:
        return {
            "error": f"Agent {agent_name} has been removed",
            "replacement": get_replacement_agent(agent_name),
            "migration_guide": "See agent-library-cleanup-migration-guide.md"
        }
```

#### Step 1.5: Test Phase 1 Removal
- [ ] Run agent discovery tests
- [ ] Verify no broken references in codebase
- [ ] Test agent loading functionality
- [ ] Validate MCP tool responses

### Phase 2: Functionality Integration

**Duration**: 1-2 weeks  
**Risk Level**: Medium  
**Focus**: Merge capabilities into broader agents

#### Step 2.1: Testing Domain Consolidation

**Target**: Consolidate 6 testing agents → 2 agents

##### Step 2.1.1: Enhance test-orchestrator-agent
```yaml
# Update agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/test-orchestrator-agent/contexts/test_orchestrator_agent_instructions.yaml

additional_capabilities:
  functional_testing:
    description: "Execute functional tests on software features and user flows"
    inherited_from: "functional_tester_agent"
    commands:
      - "Create functional test suites"
      - "Execute feature testing"
      - "Document test results and bugs"
    
  exploratory_testing:
    description: "Perform unscripted exploratory testing"
    inherited_from: "exploratory_tester_agent" 
    commands:
      - "Creative test case discovery"
      - "Edge case identification"
      - "Usability issue detection"
      
  test_case_generation:
    description: "Generate comprehensive test cases"
    inherited_from: "test_case_generator_agent"
    commands:
      - "Analyze requirements for test coverage"
      - "Generate unit, integration, and system tests"
      - "Create test data isolation strategies"
```

##### Step 2.1.2: Remove Redundant Testing Agents
```bash
rm -rf agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/functional_tester_agent
rm -rf agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/exploratory_tester_agent  
rm -rf agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/test_case_generator_agent
```

#### Step 2.2: UI/Design Domain Consolidation

**Target**: Consolidate 4 design agents → 2 agents

##### Step 2.2.1: Enhance ui_designer_expert_shadcn_agent
```yaml
# Update agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/ui_designer_expert_shadcn_agent/contexts/ui_designer_expert_shadcn_agent_instructions.yaml

enhanced_capabilities:
  general_ui_design:
    description: "General UI/UX design beyond shadcn/ui"
    inherited_from: "ui_designer_agent"
    commands:
      - "Create wireframes and mockups"
      - "Design user flows and journeys"
      - "Prototype interactive experiences"
      
  usability_evaluation:
    description: "Comprehensive usability assessments" 
    inherited_from: "usability_heuristic_agent"
    commands:
      - "Heuristic usability evaluations"
      - "Accessibility barrier identification"
      - "User experience improvement recommendations"
```

##### Step 2.2.2: Enhance design-system-agent
```yaml
# Update agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/design-system-agent/contexts/design_system_agent_instructions.yaml

expanded_capabilities:
  usability_integration:
    description: "Integrate usability principles into design systems"
    inherited_from: "usability_heuristic_agent"
    commands:
      - "Apply usability heuristics to design systems"
      - "Ensure accessibility compliance in components"
      - "Create usability-focused component guidelines"
```

##### Step 2.2.3: Remove Redundant Design Agents
```bash
rm -rf agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/ui_designer_agent
rm -rf agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/usability_heuristic_agent
```

#### Step 2.3: Research Domain Consolidation

**Target**: Consolidate 4 research agents → 2 agents

##### Step 2.3.1: Enhance deep-research-agent
```yaml
# Update agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/deep-research-agent/contexts/deep_research_agent_instructions.yaml

expanded_research_capabilities:
  market_research:
    description: "Comprehensive market analysis and competitive research"
    inherited_from: "market_research_agent"
    commands:
      - "Market viability analysis"
      - "Competitive landscape mapping"
      - "Target audience segmentation"
      - "Industry trend analysis"
      
  ux_research:
    description: "User experience research and analysis"
    inherited_from: "ux_researcher_agent" 
    commands:
      - "User needs and behavior analysis"
      - "User persona development"
      - "Usability studies and testing"
      - "UX insight synthesis"
```

##### Step 2.3.2: Remove Redundant Research Agents
```bash
rm -rf agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/market_research_agent
rm -rf agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/ux_researcher_agent
```

#### Step 2.4: Test Phase 2 Integration
- [ ] Test enhanced agent capabilities
- [ ] Verify all functionality is preserved
- [ ] Update agent selection logic
- [ ] Test cross-agent workflows

### Phase 3: Final Consolidation

**Duration**: 1 week  
**Risk Level**: Higher  
**Focus**: Complete remaining consolidations

#### Step 3.1: Strategy/Orchestration Consolidation

##### Step 3.1.1: Enhance master-orchestrator-agent
```yaml
# Update agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/master-orchestrator-agent/contexts/uber_orchestrator_agent_instructions.yaml

supreme_orchestration_capabilities:
  development_orchestration:
    description: "Software development lifecycle coordination"
    inherited_from: "development_orchestrator_agent"
    commands:
      - "Development pipeline oversight"
      - "Team coordination and dependencies"
      - "Quality gate management"
      
  complex_task_management:
    description: "Complex project orchestration"
    inherited_from: "task_deep_manager_agent"
    commands:
      - "Recursive task decomposition"
      - "Intelligent agent assignment"
      - "Quality validation workflows"
      
  workflow_architecture:
    description: "Workflow design and optimization"
    inherited_from: "workflow_architect_agent"
    commands:
      - "Process architecture design"
      - "Operational lifecycle optimization"
      - "Team coordination frameworks"
```

##### Step 3.1.2: Remove Redundant Strategy Agents
```bash
rm -rf agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/development_orchestrator_agent
rm -rf agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/task_deep_manager_agent
rm -rf agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/workflow_architect_agent
```

#### Step 3.2: Security Domain Consolidation

##### Step 3.2.1: Enhance security-auditor-agent
```yaml
# Update agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/security-auditor-agent/contexts/security_auditor_agent_instructions.yaml

comprehensive_security_capabilities:
  penetration_testing:
    description: "Security and penetration testing"
    inherited_from: "security_penetration_tester_agent"
    commands:
      - "Vulnerability assessment and exploitation"
      - "Infrastructure penetration testing"
      - "Security findings documentation"
```

##### Step 3.2.2: Enhance compliance-scope-agent  
```yaml
# Update agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/compliance-scope-agent/contexts/compliance_scope_agent_instructions.yaml

comprehensive_compliance_capabilities:
  compliance_testing:
    description: "Compliance verification testing"
    inherited_from: "compliance_testing_agent"
    commands:
      - "Regulatory compliance verification"
      - "Accessibility standards testing"
      - "Compliance violation identification"
```

##### Step 3.2.3: Remove Redundant Security Agents
```bash
rm -rf agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/security_penetration_tester_agent
rm -rf agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/compliance_testing_agent
```

#### Step 3.3: Documentation/Knowledge Consolidation

##### Step 3.3.1: Enhance documentation-agent
```yaml
# Update agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/documentation-agent/contexts/documentation_agent_instructions.yaml

comprehensive_knowledge_management:
  scribe_capabilities:
    description: "Meeting notes and knowledge capture"
    inherited_from: "scribe_agent"
    commands:
      - "Real-time meeting documentation"
      - "Decision record creation"
      - "Knowledge artifact organization"
      
  knowledge_evolution:
    description: "System learning and evolution"
    inherited_from: "knowledge_evolution_agent"
    commands:
      - "Agent performance analysis"
      - "Workflow efficiency assessment"
      - "System improvement recommendations"
      
  incident_learning:
    description: "Incident analysis and learning"
    inherited_from: "incident_learning_agent"
    commands:
      - "Post-incident knowledge capture"
      - "Pattern identification and analysis"
      - "Preventive strategy development"
```

##### Step 3.3.2: Remove Redundant Documentation Agents
```bash
rm -rf agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/scribe_agent
rm -rf agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/knowledge_evolution_agent
rm -rf agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/incident_learning_agent
```

#### Step 3.4: Final Specialized Agent Cleanup

Remove remaining redundant specialized agents:
```bash
# Marketing domain
rm -rf agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/social_media_setup_agent
rm -rf agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/growth_hacking_idea_agent

# Design domain  
rm -rf agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/graphic_design_agent
rm -rf agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/video_production_agent
rm -rf agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/design_qa_analyst_agent

# Development domain
rm -rf agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/algorithmic_problem_solver_agent

# Research domain
rm -rf agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/user_feedback_collector_agent

# Testing domain
rm -rf agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/visual_regression_testing_agent
```

## Post-Migration Tasks

### 📝 Update Documentation
- [ ] Update README.md with new agent count and capabilities
- [ ] Update CLAUDE.md agent selection guidelines  
- [ ] Update API documentation for agent discovery
- [ ] Create agent capability mapping document

### 🧪 Testing & Validation
- [ ] Run comprehensive agent discovery tests
- [ ] Test all remaining agent functionalities
- [ ] Validate agent selection logic still works
- [ ] Test cross-agent workflow patterns
- [ ] Performance benchmarking (should show improvement)

### 🔄 System Updates
- [ ] Update agent registration system
- [ ] Update agent discovery endpoints
- [ ] Update client-side agent selection logic
- [ ] Update monitoring and logging for new agent structure

### 📢 Communication
- [ ] Notify all users of agent library changes
- [ ] Provide migration guide for existing workflows
- [ ] Update training materials and documentation
- [ ] Create FAQ for common questions

## Rollback Plan

If issues are encountered during migration:

### Emergency Rollback
```bash
# Restore from backup
rm -rf agenthub_main/agent-library
mv agenthub_main/agent-library.backup agenthub_main/agent-library

# Restart services
docker-compose restart
```

### Partial Rollback
```bash
# Restore specific agents that are causing issues
cp -r agenthub_main/agent-library.backup/agents/[agent_name] agenthub_main/agent-library/agents/
```

## Success Metrics

### ✅ Migration Success Criteria
- [ ] All 32 core agents load successfully
- [ ] No functionality loss reported by users
- [ ] System performance improvements measurable
- [ ] Agent selection time improved
- [ ] Memory usage reduced
- [ ] All tests passing

### 📊 Performance Benchmarks
- **Agent Discovery Time**: Target <50% of current time
- **Memory Usage**: Target 20-30% reduction
- **Agent Selection Clarity**: User satisfaction survey >90%
- **System Maintenance**: Reduced maintenance overhead

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues and Solutions

#### Issue: Agent Not Found Errors
**Solution**: Check agent name mapping and update client references
```python
# Add to agent resolution system
AGENT_MAPPINGS = {
    'ui_designer_agent': 'ui_designer_expert_shadcn_agent',
    'lead_testing_agent': 'test-orchestrator-agent',
    'functional_tester_agent': 'test-orchestrator-agent',
    # ... additional mappings
}
```

#### Issue: Missing Functionality
**Solution**: Verify capability inheritance is properly configured in agent instructions

#### Issue: Agent Selection Confusion  
**Solution**: Update agent selection logic with clearer decision trees

## Additional Resources

- [Agent Library Cleanup Recommendations](../architecture-design/agent-library-cleanup-recommendations.md) - Complete analysis
- [Agent Configuration Guide](../development-guides/agent-configuration-guide.md) - Agent setup patterns
- [MCP Integration Guide](../development-guides/mcp-integration-guide.md) - MCP client integration
- [Troubleshooting Guide](../troubleshooting-guides/COMPREHENSIVE_TROUBLESHOOTING_GUIDE.md) - System troubleshooting

---

**Next Steps**: After completing this migration, the system will have 32 optimized agents with improved maintainability, clearer specialization, and better performance characteristics.

*Migration Guide Version: 1.0*  
*Created: 2025-09-06*  
*Status: Ready for Implementation*
